(acoustic music sting)
Alright, in the last video, I mentioned
that there's probably a couple bugs in our application,
that I hadn't tested it and gone through it
under MongoDB, and sure enough, there's a couple
interesting features.
So, here's a problem.
Let me show you this, I'm gonna go in and do an update.
And let's just change Servings to 8,
just a really simple change.
And I'm gonna do a Submit, and notice that the Ingredients
completely go away and the Categories go away,
so this is a bug, and I traced it back and what's happening
is under JPA, we were doing a merge and not having
the complete data there.
So, let me go in and show you the solution there.
What we need to do is come into the recipeform
and actually comment this out, so you don't have
to watch me code all of this.
But what we're gonna do is pass in the ingredients
in a hidden list, and we need to pass in those properties,
and what's important here, I wanna point this out,
this is an important little trick here.
With the Thymeleaf tag on the field,
what this is going to do is give us an array
that Spring'll bind to, so it'll regenerate that list.
So this is a very important part
of how Spring MVC does binding.
So let me go ahead and build this,
and we should see the changes.
Back over here.
Back up a couple.
And let's go ahead and update the Guacamole.
So now, let's take a look at this form.
I'm gonna do view source on it.
(mumbling)
Yeah, here we are.
So, now we're setting up hidden properties,
and that's what that Thymeleaf tag is doing.
So, that's going to give you ingredients and then put
an array index on it and then the dot property,
and Spring MVC is gonna bind this into an array.
Because what was happening with Mongo, Mongo doesn't quite
do the merge the same way that JPA does, so when we
did the post, it had an empty list, so Mongo was deleting
that list from it and it wasn't doing a merge operation.
Now, our command object is gonna have that list
of ingredients rebound to it, so we'll get the ingredients
and then also the category id's, so this is another
important part of it.
And also, the uom id, and that's gonna preserve
all that mapping that we have now.
So, close this.
And let me do an update here.
Update the Cooktime to 5, come down here, and save this.
Now you can see that our Categories remain
and the Ingredients remain.
On the next one, that's coming in here to the Ingredients,
and in the previous version, we were dropping out the ID.
So what's happening here is I had to modify our data model
a little bit, because the Ingredient, come back over here,
is actually a nested list property.
But, because, there's actually a couple different ways
that we could solve for this, and I created an id value,
and we don't have a reliable, distinct property on this,
so we need some way to get back to it, and because
this is nested in a list of that MongoDB document,
it doesn't get an id value, even if you go in
and annotate it with @ID.
So, if you do that annotation, you might think that Spring
or Mongo is gonna give it an ID, but it's not,
because it's a list property.
I'm gonna restart this real quick,
I wanna show you this inside of MongoDB.
So, the key part here is, I went in and created
an id property and I'm assigning it a random unit,
and that's a, I think, I forget UUID stands for.
I think it's universally unique ID, so.
The UUID unique to something like, grains of sands
on a beach, so it does have a significant uniqueness factor
of using a random unit.
I'm gonna restart this real quick so I can get that port
in the Mongo database.
And we are back up and running.
Here's the connection, the port ID of the embedded Mongo.
So, over here, to Robo 3T, and I got to kill this connection.
I just need to update that port value, because,
just as a reminder, we have port zero there,
and it's going to reconnect every time.
So I wanna show you this mapping inside of Mongo.
Wrong one.
Probably be better if I go to the test database.
There's a recipe.
And let's explode this out, and what was happening
was we weren't getting an id value until I set it to U,
so this is a unique identifier.
So, without setting this property here,
we're not getting an id value, or an id set.
So, even using the @ID annotation, and that's because
Mongo's a document database, so it does behave
a little bit differently, so.
Mongo doesn't need this array, and one way I could have
solved for it was to do the array index, like we did
for the binding, with the properties in the hidden field,
but, bouncing it back and fourth, I wasn't quite comfortable
that the array index would be reliable and we might
accidentally update the wrong ingredients,
so I wanted to put a unique identifier on it.
And plus, the way we designed the application
was to work off a unique ID for the ingredients,
so that was, like, the real trick to this.
Now, there's a couple other spots in here,
where I did have to curate through the IDs.
The other thing was here, on line 50,
for those hidden properties bind properly.
I didn't know this myself, but I had to refactor
from a Set to ArrayList.
So, you can see the refactoring that I did there on line 50.
So, I actually learned something in debugging this,
because the index array that was set up in the form
in Thymeleaf, as it turns out, Spring MVC does not
bind to a Set, but it will bind to a List.
So, minor thing that we had to change there,
but that is fixed now.
Couple other spots that I had to go in and carry it through.
Let's see, the certain changes here, though.
Couple spots here, I had to set the RecipeId.
So, we weren't setting that before and that was getting
carried through in the converter, but the converter
doesn't have access to that recipeId.
So, a couple minor changes there, I'll let you go through
and check it, but now we have a fully functional
web application now running with MongoDB.
So, a couple minor changes that we needed to do there
importing it over to Mongo,
but I'm pretty happy with the app.
I'd like to increase the test coverage a little bit,
but overall, I think we have a solid working example
of MongoDB and Spring Boot.